Nurse, my gums bleed when I brush my teeth.I don't know why.How long has it been like this?For about 5 months.Open your mouth.Let me have a look.
There are a lot of dental calculus and odontolith on your teeth . They can stimulate the edge of the gums and cause inflammation and bleding of the gums.
What are dental calculus and odontolith?The dental calculus is the soft calculs on the surface of teeh or at the edge of gums . It appears yello or grey . It's soft and easy to remove . The odontolith is the hard calcified or calcifying lump which is mainly formed by dental plaque . It's hard and dificult to remove.
How to remove the dental calculus and odontolith?The doctors can do it . They remove them with a special instrument or an ultrasonic scaler.
That's wonderful.Could you please say something more about ultrasonic curettage?Ultrasonic curettage is an effective method of debridement of the soft tissue walls of periodontal pockets, and histological studies of tissue excised after curettage have shown that healing occurs by epithelialization of the sulcuar surface and resolution of inflammation in the gingival corium . The ultrasonic technique is equally as effective as conventional hand instrumentation in calculus removal, but less effective in stain removal . Of course it is more rapid than hand instrumentation.
Have you found any adverse effects on the tissue of the periodontium?No.
Can we prevent dental calculus and odontolith?The most important thing is to pay more attention to dental hygiene . Especially you should learn to brush your teeth correctly.I brush them horizontally.That's a wrong way . The correct way is to brush them up and down . To brush them horizontally may rub all the natural enamel off . I think it is also very important to select a suitable toothbrush . The head of the toothbrush should not be too long or too short. For adults, the length of the head of the brush is not more than 35mm, the width is not more than 13mm . For children, the length is not more than 28mm, the width is not more than 11mm. For infants, the length is ont more than 25mm, the width is not more than 8mm.
I have learned a lot . Thank you very much.Not at all.
I want to have my teeth cleansed.Could you make an appoinment for me?All right . The doctor has got rather a full day tomorrow, You can come here at 10 the day after tomorrow.All right.